Hello
Hi,this is a chatbot ,Please enter the name of disease
Alzheimer's Disease
It is a progressive disease beginning with mild memory loss and possibly leading to loss of the ability to carry on a conversation and respond to the environment. Symptoms include -Memory loss that disrupts daily life, such as getting lost in a familiar place or repeating questions. Trouble handling money and paying bills. Difficulty completing familiar tasks at home, at work or at leisure. Decreased or poor judgment. Misplacing things and being unable to retrace steps to find them. Changes in mood, personality, or behavior. Treatment - Helping people maintain brain health. Managing behavioral symptoms. Slowing or delaying symptoms of the disease.
Arthritis
Inflammation of one or more joints, causing pain and stiffness that can worsen with age. Different types of arthritis exist, each with different causes including wear and tear, infections and underlying diseases. Symptoms include pain, swelling, reduced range of motion and stiffness. Medication, physiotherapy or sometimes surgery helps reduce symptoms and improve quality of life.
Autism
A serious developmental disorder that impairs the ability to communicate and interact. Autism spectrum disorder impacts the nervous system and affects the overall cognitive, emotional, social and physical health of the affected individual. The range and severity of symptoms can vary widely. Common symptoms include difficulty with communication, difficulty with social interactions, obsessive interests and repetitive behaviours. Early recognition, as well as behavioural, educational and family therapies may reduce symptoms and support development and learning.
Bronchitis
Inflammation of the lining of bronchial tubes, which carry air to and from the lungs. Acute bronchitis is often caused by a viral respiratory infection and improves by itself. Symptoms of bronchitis include coughing up thickened mucus and shortness of breath. Treatments usually includes soothing remedies to help with coughing, which may last weeks. Antibiotics are not usually recommended.
Bird flu
Strains of the influenza virus that primarily infect birds, but can also infect humans. This type of flu is most often contracted by contact with sick birds. It can also be passed from person to person. Symptoms begin within two to eight days and can seem like the common flu. Cough, fever, sore throat, muscle aches, headache and shortness of breath may occur. The disease can carry a high mortality in humans. Some antiviral drugs, if taken within two days of symptoms, may help.
Cancer
A disease in which abnormal cells divide uncontrollably and destroy body tissue. Write the name of the type of cancer for more details
Breast cancer
A cancer that forms in the cells of the breasts. Breast cancer can occur in women and rarely in men. Symptoms of breast cancer include a lump in the breast, bloody discharge from the nipple and changes in the shape or texture of the nipple or breast. Its treatment depends on the stage of cancer. It may consist of chemotherapy, radiation, hormone therapy and surgery.
Prostate cancer
A cancer in a man's prostate, a small walnut-sized gland that produces seminal fluid. A man's prostate produces the seminal fluid that nourishes and transports sperm. Symptoms include difficulty with urination, but sometimes there are no symptoms at all. Some types of prostate cancer grow slowly. In some of these cases, monitoring is recommended. Other types are aggressive and require radiation, surgery, hormone therapy, chemotherapy or other treatments.
Basal cell cancer
A type of skin cancer that begins in the basal cells. Basal cells produce new skin cells as old ones die. Limiting sun exposure can help prevent these cells from becoming cancerous. This cancer typically appears as a white, waxy lump or a brown, scaly patch on sun-exposed areas, such as the face and neck. Treatments include prescription creams or surgery to remove the cancer. In some cases radiation therapy may be required.
Skin cancer
The most serious type of skin cancer is Melanoma. Melanoma occurs when the pigment-producing cells that give colour to the skin become cancerous. Symptoms might include a new, unusual growth or a change in an existing mole. Melanomas can occur anywhere on the body. Treatment may involve surgery, radiation, medication or in some cases, chemotherapy.
Lung cancer
A cancer that begins in the lungs and most often occurs in people who smoke. Two major types of lung cancer are non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancer. Causes of lung cancer include smoking, second-hand smoke, exposure to certain toxins and family history. Symptoms include a cough (often with blood), chest pain, wheezing and weight loss. These symptoms often don't appear until the cancer is advanced. Treatments vary but may include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, targeted drug therapy and immunotherapy.
Leukemia
A cancer of blood-forming tissues, hindering the body's ability to fight infection. Leukaemia is cancer of blood-forming tissues, including bone marrow. Many types exist such as acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, acute myeloid leukaemia and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Many patients with slow-growing types of leukaemia don't have symptoms. Rapidly growing types of leukaemia may cause symptoms that include fatigue, weight loss, frequent infections and easy bleeding or bruising. Treatment is highly variable. For slow-growing leukaemias, treatment may include monitoring. For aggressive leukaemias, treatment includes chemotherapy that's sometimes followed by radiation and stem-cell transplant.
Chickenpox
A highly contagious viral infection which causes an itchy, blister-like rash on the skin. Chickenpox is highly contagious to those who haven't had the disease or been vaccinated against it. The most characteristic symptom is an itchy, blister-like rash on the skin. Chickenpox can be prevented by a vaccine. Treatment usually involves relieving symptoms, although high-risk groups may receive antiviral medication.
Coronavirus
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus. Most people who fall sick with COVID-19 will experience mild to moderate symptoms and recover without special treatment. The virus that causes COVID-19 is mainly transmitted through droplets generated when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or exhales. These droplets are too heavy to hang in the air, and quickly fall on floors or surfaces. You can be infected by breathing in the virus if you are within close proximity of someone who has COVID-19, or by touching a contaminated surface and then your eyes, nose or mouth. Treatment for patients with mild/asymptomatic disease in home isolation :-Patients must be in communication with a treating physician and promptly report in case of any worsening. Continue the medications for other co-morbid illness after consulting the treating physician. Patients to follow symptomatic management for fever, running nose and cough, as warranted. Patients may perform warm water gargles or take steam inhalation twice a day. When to seek immediate medical attention:- Difficulty in breathing .Dip in oxygen saturation (SpO2 < 94% on room air). Persistent pain/pressure in the chest .Mental confusion or inability to arouse
Dengue
A mosquito-borne viral disease occurring in tropical and subtropical areas. Those who become infected with the virus a second time are at a significantly greater risk of developing severe disease. Symptoms include high fever, headache, rash and muscle and joint pain. In severe cases there is serious bleeding and shock, which can be life threatening. Treatment includes fluids and pain relievers. Severe cases require hospital care.
Diabetes
A group of diseases that result in too much sugar in the blood (high blood glucose).With diabetes, the body either doesn't produce enough insulin, or it resists insulin. Symptoms include increased thirst, frequent urination, hunger, fatigue and blurred vision. In some cases, there may be no symptoms. Treatments include diet, exercise, medication and insulin therapy. 
Diphtheria
A serious infection of the nose and throat that's easily preventable by a vaccine. A sheet of thick, grey matter covers the back of the throat, making breathing hard. Symptoms include sore throat, fever, swollen lymph nodes and weakness. Treatments include antibiotics and an antitoxin that neutralises the diphtheria toxin. A vaccine is available.
Fever  
A temporary increase in average body temperature of 98.6°F (37°C).
Flu
A common viral infection that can be deadly, especially in high-risk groups. The flu attacks the lungs, nose and throat. Young children, older adults, pregnant women and people with chronic disease or weak immune systems are at high risk. Symptoms include fever, chills, muscle aches, cough, congestion, runny nose, headaches and fatigue. Flu is primarily treated with rest and fluid intake to allow the body to fight the infection on its own. Paracetamol may help cure the symptoms but NSAIDs should be avoided. An annual vaccine can help prevent the flu and limit its complications.
Gonorrhoea
A sexually transmitted bacterial infection that, if untreated, may cause infertility. Regular screening can help detect instances when an infection is present despite having no symptoms. Symptoms include painful urination and abnormal discharge from the penis or vagina. Men may experience testicular pain and women may experience pain in the lower stomach. In some cases, gonorrhoea has no symptoms. Gonorrhoea can be treated with antibiotics.
Black fever
A disease caused by infection with leishmania parasites. Visceral leishmaniasis is spread by sandfly bites. This type of leishmaniasis affects the internal organs, usually the spleen, liver and bone marrow. Some people have no symptoms. For others, symptoms may include fever, weight loss and swelling of the spleen or liver. Medication exists to kill the parasites. If left untreated, severe cases are typically fatal.
Malaria
A disease caused by a plasmodium parasite, transmitted by the bite of infected mosquitoes. The severity of malaria varies based on the species of plasmodium. Symptoms are chills, fever and sweating, usually occurring a few weeks after being bitten. People travelling to areas where malaria is common typically take protective drugs before, during and after their trip. Treatment includes antimalarial drugs.
Meningitis
Inflammation of brain and spinal cord membranes, typically caused by an infection. Meningitis is usually caused by a viral infection but can also be bacterial or fungal. Vaccines can prevent some forms of meningitis. Symptoms include headache, fever and stiff neck. Depending on the cause, meningitis may get better on its own or it can be life-threatening, requiring urgent antibiotic treatment.
Depression
A mental health disorder characterised by persistently depressed mood or loss of interest in activities, causing significant impairment in daily life. Possible causes include a combination of biological, psychological and social sources of distress. Increasingly, research suggests that these factors may cause changes in brain function, including altered activity of certain neural circuits in the brain. The persistent feeling of sadness or loss of interest that characterises major depression can lead to a range of behavioural and physical symptoms. These may include changes in sleep, appetite, energy level, concentration, daily behaviour or self-esteem. Depression can also be associated with thoughts of suicide. The mainstay of treatment is usually medication, talk therapy or a combination of the two. Increasingly, research suggests that these treatments may normalise brain changes associated with depression.
Obesity
A disorder involving excessive body fat that increases the risk of health problems. Obesity often results from taking in more calories than are burned by exercise and normal daily activities. Obesity occurs when a person's body mass index is 25 or greater. The excessive body fat increases the risk of serious health problems. The mainstay of treatment is lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise.
Polio
A virus that may cause paralysis and is easily preventable by the polio vaccine. Polio is transmitted through contaminated water or food, or contact with an infected person. Many people who are infected with the poliovirus don't become sick and have no symptoms. However, those who do become ill develop paralysis, which can sometimes be fatal. Treatment includes bed rest, pain relievers and portable ventilators.
Rabies
A deadly virus spread to people from the saliva of infected animals. Rabies is usually transmitted through an animal bite, for example, from stray dogs. Symptoms include fever, headache, excess salivation, muscle spasms, paralysis and mental confusion. Seek immediate medical attention after a bite or suspected bite. There is no specific treatment for rabies. Once symptoms appear, it's nearly always fatal. A vaccine can prevent infection.
Smallpox
An eradicated virus that used to be contagious, disfiguring and often deadly. Naturally occurring smallpox was destroyed worldwide by 1980. In addition to flu-like symptoms, patients also experience a rash that appears first on the face, hands and forearms and then later appears on the torso. There's no treatment or cure for smallpox. A vaccine can prevent it, but the vaccine's side effect risk is too high to justify routine vaccination for people at low risk of exposure to the virus.
Tuberculosis
A potentially serious infectious bacterial disease that mainly affects the lungs. The bacteria that cause TB are spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes. Most people infected with the bacteria that cause tuberculosis don't have symptoms. When symptoms do occur, they usually include a cough (sometimes blood-tinged), weight loss, night sweats and fever. Treatment isn't always required for those without symptoms. Patients with active symptoms will require a long course of treatment involving multiple antibiotics.
Tetanus
A serious bacterial infection that causes painful muscle spasms and can lead to death. Tetanus is a potentially fatal bacterial infection that affects the nerves. A vaccine can easily prevent the infection, which has no cure. Tetanus causes painful muscle contractions, particularly in the jaw and neck. It can interfere with the ability to breathe, eventually causing death. Treatment focuses on managing complications.
Typhoid
Typhoid fever is an infection that spreads through contaminated food and water. Vaccines are recommended in areas where typhoid fever is common. Symptoms include high fever, headache, stomach pain, weakness, vomiting and loose stools. Treatment includes antibiotics and fluids.